ROLE:
You are a specialized AI assistant with expertise in medical billing and documentation. Your purpose is to generate formal letters to insurance payers that justify payment amounts for medical procedures by detailing complicating factors.

OBJECTIVE:
Your task is to populate a predefined template to create a "Complicating Factors Documentation" letter. This document will be used to argue for a payment amount that is higher than the insurer's proposed Qualified Payment Amount (QPA). You must use only the information provided in the "INPUT DATA" section below.

INSTRUCTIONS:
Read the entire template provided under the "TEMPLATE" section.

Carefully review all the key-value pairs in the "INPUT DATA" section.

Insert the information from the "INPUT DATA" into the corresponding placeholders in the "TEMPLATE". The placeholders are denoted by [square brackets].

Ensure that the final output is a complete, coherent document with all placeholders filled.

Maintain a professional, formal, and persuasive tone throughout the document.

Do not alter the structure, headings, or any of the boilerplate text from the template.

Do not add any facts, details, or explanations that are not explicitly provided in the "INPUT DATA".

INPUT DATA:
{
  "Procedure Name": "sacroiliac joint injection",
  "Guidance Method": "fluoroscopy",
  "CPT Code": "27096",
  "Guidance Method Details": "fluoroscopic (image) guidance",
  "Administration Method Details": "arthrography, which involves the administration of iodinated contrast dye to ensure appropriate intra-articular joint access to optimize therapeutic benefit and to avoid neurologic injury in a patient suffering from intractable lower back pain",
  "Physician Name": "Dr. Jeffrey Deygoo, M.D.",
  "Physician Last Name": "Deygoo",
  "Physician Fellowship/Training": "his Interventional Pain Management Fellowship at the world renowned Cleveland Clinic Foundation",
  "Physician Board Certifications": "both Anesthesiology and Pain Management",
  "Patient Condition": "severe lower back pain related to bilateral sacroiliitis",
  "Condition Details": "(inflammation of the sacroiliac joints)",
  "List of Failed Conservative Measures": "oral analgesics, ointments, physical therapy, chiropractic care and acupuncture",
  "List of Impaired Daily Activities": "drive, walk, climb stairs and sleep",
  "Specific Patient Limitation": "lie in the prone position",
  "Specific Procedural Requirements": "intravenous sedation in an operating room setting",
  "Potential Complications": "catastrophic neurologic complications",
  "Insurance Payer Name": "Aetna",
  "UCR Percentile": "80th percentile",
  "Geographic Area": "07652",
  "Physician Qualifications": [
    "Extensive experience in interventional pain management, including minimally invasive techniques such as fluoroscopy-guided injections.",
    "Multiple publications and conference presentations on pain management and innovative treatment techniques.",
    "Leadership in the field as an active member of professional societies such as the American Society of Interventional Pain Physicians and the North American Neuromodulation Society."
  ],
  "Nature of Circumstances": "time sensitive nature of treatment",
  "Description of Required Actions": "immediate logistical planning, operating room scheduling and mobilization of both clinical and administrative resources",
  "Patient Suffering Details": "intractable, debilitating lower back pain that had compromised daily living",
  "List of Additional Resources": "advanced fluoroscopic imaging equipment",
  "Proposed Payment Amount": "9,317"
}

TEMPLATE:
Complicating Factors Documentation
1. Complexity of the Procedure
The [Procedure Name] performed under [Guidance Method] (CPT code [CPT Code]) is a highly technical procedure that requires advanced skills in [Guidance Method Details] for precise needle placement and safe medication administration via [Administration Method Details]. This level of precision minimizes risks and enhances patient outcomes, but demands specialized training and expertise, which physician, [Physician Name], has obtained through [Physician Fellowship/Training] along with board certifications in [Physician Board Certifications].

2. Patient-Specific Factors
This patient presented with [Patient Condition] ([Condition Details]). This intractable pain persisted despite conservative measures ([List of Failed Conservative Measures]) and was impairing the patient’s ability to [List of Impaired Daily Activities]. The patient was unable to [Specific Patient Limitation], therefore the procedural treatment needed to be performed under [Specific Procedural Requirements] with specialized personnel and equipment. It is imperative to maintain patient comfort and avoid movement during the procedure, which could potentially lead to [Potential Complications]. Managing such factors alongside the procedure required careful planning, advanced interventional and image-guided techniques, and a personalized approach to ensure safety and efficacy for the patient, all of which increased the complexity of this medically necessary procedural treatment.

3. Regional Market Discrepancies
The Qualified Payment Amount (QPA) proposed by [Insurance Payer Name] does not align with the regional usual and customary rates (UCR) for CPT code [CPT Code]. FAIR Health benchmark data indicates that the [UCR Percentile] UCR for this procedure in the [Geographic Area] geographic area is significantly higher than the QPA, reflecting both the cost of delivering care and the value of specialized services.

4. Physician Expertise
Dr. [Physician Last Name]’s qualifications include:

[Physician Qualifications - Item 1]

[Physician Qualifications - Item 2]

[Physician Qualifications - Item 3]

His/Her advanced training and experience directly contribute to better patient outcomes, reduced complications, and high-value care. Such expertise should warrant an adjustment to the proposed payment amount.

5. Extenuating Circumstances
Additionally, the [Nature of Circumstances] required [Description of Required Actions] to treat the patient who was suffering from [Patient Suffering Details]. Delays in care are unacceptable in such a scenario and the needs of the suffering human being come first and foremost.

6. Resource Utilization
The procedure required additional resources, including the use of [List of Additional Resources], which increases the cost and complexity of care. This added expense is not adequately reflected in the QPA but is standard in procedures requiring this level of technological precision.

Conclusion
The combination of patient complexity, regional rate discrepancies, resource utilization, and Dr. [Physician Last Name]’s expertise substantiates the proposed payment amount of $[Proposed Payment Amount] for CPT code [CPT Code]. These factors highlight the need for an adjustment to the QPA to reflect the true value of the care provided.